
Keertana Namuduri 
DH 150: User Experience Design 

Tentative Title

Description about the community you want to contribute to with your UX Design:
Information about the website/app I chose for this project:
Screenshot of the web/app:
URL of the website:
Brief information about the website:
Overall evaluation of the website:


Heuristic Evaluation

Visibility of System Status

The application Breethe has both an iOS application and a website for users to use on a desktop. There are differences between both the iOS application and the website in terms of these heuristics. For example, the website does not do a good job of making it clear of what the status is for the user when they begin meditating. Once you start a meditation on the website, there is no quantitative indicator of how much time has elapsed in your meditation or of how much time is remaining in your meditation. There is only a bar, which provides a qualitative visual view for the user, which may not be helpful for someone who is pressed for time and needs to know their status. 
However, on the mobile app for Breethe, there is an indicator of how much time is remaining in the meditation, meaning that they do a better job of making the system status visible. 
Additionally, the website did not have any onboarding but the app had an onboarding to curate meditations that were more fit for the user’s personal goals. However, there was no indication of what step in the onboarding you were at, making it difficult for users to know their status. 

Match Between System and the Real World

In the mobile app, there are different tabs called “My Place,” “Sleep,” “Meditation,” “Well-being,” and “Music.” Although “My Place” could be renamed to be “Home” as most other apps do to bring users back to the main page, the other tabs have a match between system and real world since those are all words that are commonly used in the real world and will help users understand what their purpose is. 
In the website on the other hand, the tabs are labeled “My Place,” “One-offs,” “Series,” “Well-being,” “Profile,” and “More.” The same mismatch applies for the “My Place” tab, but the website has a “one-offs” tab that might be confusing, as they may be called “singles” to better match the real world, since “one-offs” is not a commonly used term. However, “Series,” “Well-being,” “Profile,” and “More” all match between the system and real world.

User Control and Freedom

In the mobile app for Breethe, there is little user control and freedom during onboarding, because when it gets to the option to pay for a membership or watch a video, the “x” to exit is quite small and hidden because it blends into its background. This makes it hard for the user to exit when they want to. 
However, in the website version of Breethe, there is a more clear “x” to help the user exit a meditation if they would like to, giving them more freedom and control. 
Consistency and Standards
Both the mobile app does a good job of keeping everything consistent and standardized. In the mobile app, the 5 different options at the bottom of the screen, “My Place,” “Sleep,” “Meditation,” “Well-being,” and Music are all the same font, color and size, making them standardized and consistent, and making it clear to the user that these are the different broad options for the different uses of the app. Within, each of those sections, for example, “Well-being,” the options are similar color schemes to illustrate that they are all something that helps with well-being but in different ways. In the website, there is less consistency and standards. The subtopics all look similar, since they all have grey font, are the same size font and have a symbol. However, in the options within the subtopics, the options are all different colors, making them inconsistent and unstandardized. This can be confusing for a user, because they will think that the different options are of different levels of organization within the website, although they are of the same level. 
	

Error Prevention

The error prevention for the website and app is satisfactory because there is nothing 	that requires error prevention in the app. Possibly, the password for the creation of 
the account could have led to error prevention, but there was no parameters to the 
type of password that is allowed. Therefore, there is no error prevention in either the website or mobile app, but since there are not many aspects of the app that requires error prevention, I consider it to be satisfactory. 

Recognition Rather than Recall
	
The website has recognition rather than recall because when searching for a meditation to practice in a certain topic, like practicing mindfulness in the well being 
section, and within it, there are many different meditation titles to look at and recognize and choose that does not require a user to recall what type of meditation they would like to do. 
In the mobile app, also, there is recognition rather than recall because when choosing a meditation to complete, you can choose between different options in sub-topics by recognizing what type of meditation you want to do and then within that type, there is a list of of different meditations that you can choose between by recognizing which meditation you want to do instead of having to remember it and then recall it. 

Flexibility and Efficiency of Use

The website for Breethe is fairly flexible or efficient for use, because there are shortcuts to get to meditations that may be more likely to be used by the user. For example, on the “My Place” page, there are sections that have the user’s favorites to quickly get to the user’s favorite meditations. Additionally, on the “My Place” page, there is a “Last Played” option for those that might want to repeat a meditation they recently did or continue a series that they recently started. These shortcuts on the home page allow the user to easily get to the meditations that they are more likely to use. However, these two features are at the bottom of the page in the “My Place” page, making it inconvenient for the user to easily get to the meditations they need. This layout is the same on the mobile app, making both the website and the mobile app inflexible and inefficient to use. 

Aesthetic and Minimalist Design

The website could use a more aesthetic design but it is fairly minimalist. In certain screens, the background with the rocks is dynamic and is moving, which may be distracting for the user. Additionally, the website uses many different colors, which is not an aesthetic look, since it would be a lot more aesthetic if they just followed one color scheme. However, the design does not have many unnecessary features or options, so it is a fairly minimalist design.
The mobile app has a lot more of an aesthetic design, since the colors it uses all fall into the same color scheme and are all generally cool colors, or are, at the least, are similar colors instead of contrasting colors next to each other. The mobile app has less of a minimalist design than the website does, because the website has many options that are not necessary that makes it annoying for the user to navigate through. For example, it includes “Fall Asleep with Bedtime Stories” or “Be Mindful On-The-Go,” and 13 other playlists on the “My Place” page, which is unnecessary and overwhelming for the user. 

Help Users Recognize, Diagnose and Recover from Errors

The website does not have too many ways to help users recover from errors, since there are not too many ways to create errors. However, if the user enters the wrong password, there is a message that helps them recognize, diagnose and recover from the error. 

Help and Documentation

Breethe website’s help and documentation is satisfactory. In the help section, includes basic email contact information for questions, FAQ, billing, terms & conditions and a privacy policy. The FAQ section is organized into different concerns, such as “Account” or “Payments” to make it easier for the user to navigate and find an answer to their concern. Additionally, their documentation on the website is satisfactory because they add information on the founders, credits and a link to their blog, all which describe their process towards creating the website and offers additional resources. 
